- Spring Data is a Spring ecosystem project that helps us more easily implement a Spring app’s persistence layer. Spring Data provides an abstraction layer over multiple persistence technologies and facilitates the implementation by providing a common set of contracts.
- With Spring Data, we implement repositories through interfaces that extend standard Spring Data contracts: – Repository, which doesn’t provide any persistence operation – CrudRepository, which provides simple CREATE, READ, UPDATE, DELETE (CRUD) operations – PagingAndSortingRepository, which extends CrudRepository and adds operations for the pagination and sorting of the fetched records
- You use the @Query annotation with the Spring Data repository method to define the SQL query your app executes for that specific operation.
- If you declare a method and don’t explicitly specify a query with the @Query annotation, Spring Data will translate the method’s name into a SQL query. The method name needs to be defined based on Spring Data rules to understand and translate it into the correct query. If Spring Data cannot solve the method name, the application fails to start and throws an exception.
- It is preferable to use the @Query annotation and avoid relying on Spring Data to translate the method name into the query. Using the name translation approach could come with difficulties:
  1-It creates long and difficult-to-read method names for more complex operations, which affect the app’s maintainability.
  2- t slows down the app’s initialization because the app needs now to also translate the method names.
  3– You need to learn the Spring Data method name convention. 
  4– It runs the risk of affecting the app’s behavior by an incorrect refactor of the method name.
- Any operation that changes data (e.g., executes INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE queries) must be annotated with the @Modifying annotation to instruct Spring Data that the operation changes data records.