- For a Java application, the Java Development Kit (JDK) provides abstractions of the objects the app needs to connect to a relational database. The app always needs to add a runtime dependency that provides the implementations of these abstractions. We name this dependency the JDBC driver.
- JdbcTemplate is a Spring tool that simplifies the code you write to access a relational database using JDBC. The JdbcTemplate object depends on a data source to connect to the database server.
- To send a query that mutates data in a table, you use the JdbcTemplate object’s update() method. To send SELECT queries to retrieve data, you use one of the JdbcTemplate’s query() methods. You’ll most often need to use such operations for changing or retrieving persisted data.
- To customize the data source your Spring Boot application uses, you configure a custom bean of the type java.sql.DataSource. If you declare a bean of this type in Spring’s context, Spring Boot will use it instead of configuring a default one. You use the same approach if you need a custom JdbcTemplate object. We generally use the Spring Boot–provided defaults, but specific cases sometimes need custom configurations or implementations for various optimizations
- You can create multiple data source objects, each with their own JdbcTemplate object associated if you want your app to connect to multiple databases. In such a scenario, you’d need to use the @Qualifier annotation to distinguish between objects of the same type in the application context (as you learned in chapters 4 and 5).
- 